# 03-22-2023 - it continues!

Today, I just found [this great page](https://doom.fandom.com/wiki/Doom_source_code) describing the legend for the source code of DOOM.

> If the source code is in `linuxdoom-1.10`, then I have to wonder if I'm studying the wrong folders like `ipx` and `sndserv` here. Time will tell!

### Q0: What are we doing today?
### A: We're going to take a shallow dive into the `sndserv` folder.

---
### Q1: What's the `sndserv` folder all about?
### A: It very much looks like it contains files related to handling audio.

[Per the folder's README](../sndserv/README.sndserv),

> This is the soundserver as used by the original Linuxdoom release.

Looks like these investigations will fit within chunk #4, `Audio', as outlined in my [README](../README.md).


---
### Q2: What's in `linux.c`?
### A: ...A lot of functions related to the game's audio, seemingly.

There are two interestings bit in here, `rcsid` and `#include <linux/soundcard.h>`.
[I read here](https://stackoverflow.com/a/66286749/5374137) that the former is apparently a form of version control, and the latter just seems to be for handling audio on Linux machines.

Also in here are some functions worth nothing:

- `myioctl`
  - Probably means "my [ioctl](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ioctl)".
- `I_InitMusic`
- `I_InitSound`
- `I_SubmitOutputBuffer`
- `I_ShutdownSound`
- `I_ShutdownMusic`

Not gonna lie, I am not slightly prepared to take on a high-level description of any of the code yet. ¯\\\_(ツ)_/¯ Moving on...

---
### Q3: What's in `Makefile`?
### A: Everything needed to tell the compiler how to make... whatever it is the files in this folder makes.

---
### Q4: What's in `sounds.c`?
### A: Information about all of the music and sounds, it seems.

Line `:107` in the code is `{ "ampie", 0 },`, which stands for 'Bye Bye American Pie', used in [DOOM II, MAP 23](https://doom.fandom.com/wiki/MAP23:_Barrels_o%27_Fun_(Doom_II)). The song riffs very, very heavily on 'Them Bones' by Alice in Chains, though arguably without the same heft, coming through MIDI. But as someone as obsessed with early Alice in Chains as with the 90's DOOMs, I felt obliged to point that out here. 🙃

---
### Q5: What's in `sounds.h`?
### A: Type definitions for the aforementioned `sounds.c`, created if said definitions DNE.

---
### Q6: What's in `soundsrv.c`?
### A: The code for a Unix soundserver, according to the file header comment.

Some very interesting stuff in here.

- There's use of a `register` keyword: I'd never seen it before, but it's apparently what I suspected it would be: [placing values directly into a CPU register](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Register_(keyword)). This was likely to access speeds RAM couldn't provide at that time. It's now deprecated and ignored in C++.

- The `mix` function, which, IIUC, mixes the audio from 8 different available audio channels. Beyond that, I won't pretend I know what's going on here.

- The `grabdata` function, which I'm pretty sure from looking at the code tries to open DOOM WAD files if they are present and loads in the sounds defined within them.

- A cheeky `whocares` timezone. ¯\\\_(ツ)_/¯

- The `updatesounds` function, which calls the `mix` and `I_SubmitOutputBuffer` functions in order to write out the sounds to the audio buffer, no doubt.

- ...Some more I will document tomorrow!