# 03-20-2023 - it begins!

### Q0: What are we doing today?
### A: We're going to take a shallow dive into the `ipx` folder.
I have _absolutely zero_ intentions at this early stage to dive into any part of the game code: I just want to understand what everything does at a high level, _then_ start working my way into the details once I've got the big picture and am comfortable with the codebase.

The research here will likely fit within chunk #5 as outlined in my [README](../README.md), `Network Play'.

---
### Q1: What is the `ipx` folder?
### A: According to the folder's [README](../ipx/README), it contains code supporting DOOM's IPX network driver.

---
### Q2: What is _IPX_ anyway?
### A: [Internetwork Packet Exchange.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internetwork_Packet_Exchange) I'd not heard of it until now.
It was apparently quite popular at the time, and had a small memory footprint, making it a great fit for OS's which obviously didn't have quite the memory we have today. Unfortunately, IPX didn't scale well on large networks, and was eventually phased out and replaced by TCP/IP when the Internet really began to take off.

---
### Q3: What's in `DOOMNET.C`?
### A: The `launchDOOM` function—likely, used to launch DOOM.
This function seems to be called in two places:
* `IPXSETUP.C`
* `SERSETUP.C`

(Dunno what's in either of those files yet.)

At a high level, `launchDOOM` does some setup to launch DOOM or DOOM2 as appropriate.
The file mentions things like `doomcom` (and setting its `id`), hooking in an "interrupt vector", and handling CLI arguments.

A lot of this is over my head right now, and that's okay, I'll dedicate more time to the finer details later.

---
### Q4: What's in `DOOMNET.H`?
### A: Various function and constant declarations, plus the declaration of the `doomcom` struct.
I don't want to spend too long with this one right now, but I see some interesting things like `MAXNETNODES` and `MAXPLAYERS`, set to `8` and `4` respectively.

    Man... It's so hard to believe how far technology has come since then. I can just see Carmack in his office now, typing out those humble little numbers some 30 years ago, dreaming of the days we're in now. 🙂

In the `doomcom` struct, I see some members that catch my eye: `episode`, `map`, `skill`, and `deathmatch`. Others like `extratics` and `ticdup`, I'll need to revisit on a deeper dive.

---
### Q5: What's in `IPXSTR.H`?
### A: Various string constants used throughout other files in the `ipx` folder.

Not gonna spend much time here until I need to dig in to the code that uses it.

---
### Q6: What's in `IPX_FRCH.H`?
### A: French versions of the constants in `IPXSTR.H`.

I'm not immediately sure why there's just two versions, one for English and one for French, but I can always find out later.

---
### Q7: What's in `IPXNET.C`?
### A: The IPX packet driver, and Many functions for handling various IPX network communications.

A little overwhelming right now, but here's the functions inside:

- `OpenSocket`
- `CloseSocket`
- `ListenForPacket`
- `GetLocalAddress`
- `InitNetwork`
- `ShutdownNetwork`
- `SendPacket`
- `ShortSwap`
- `GetPacket`

Sounds like an exciting file to explore!

Will continue this file tomorrow.
